# xLancer - N&W

### `Founding letter`

[https://worldcoin.org/cofounder-letter](https://worldcoin.org/cofounder-letter)

- Inspo
    
    [https://www.startery.io/](https://www.startery.io/)
    
    Flexible
    
    Ref: [https://www.viralcuts.co/](https://www.viralcuts.co/)
    
    [https://spartanlabs.studio/](https://spartanlabs.studio/)
    
    [https://fueler.io/](https://fueler.io/)
    
    [https://www.trend.io/creators](https://www.trend.io/creators)? - builders make money doing what they love - brands get quality. they get matched with ai - easy win for everyone
    

North star

Gamify freelancer

**Essential**

Verified talent (personal review, NFT proof of work)

List of Talent (lancers)

Communities (as mass talent source)

Matching system (human → AI reasoning)

Mission builder (AI prompt)

Mission board (Notion)

Really cool asf looking mission terminal to launch missions (like imagine posting an automation request… ooooh)

Nice landing page that shows we have the BEST internet underground talent (show the stuff they built and client work as example)

**90 SEC**

A radically new way to monetize your skills online

Freelancing in 2023, not 2012

Don’t let freelance marketplaces rob you

A system for internet talent to build their income without any extra effort and online businesses to get shit done and tap into the top global talent pool on their terms.

**RUNDOWN**

Imagine you could post a mission to a public board. Construct mission by talking to our AI chat. Reject bad missions. Goes live on a public bounty board. Pay for BOOST ($50-100 as AI credits) - our AI match makes and gets this mission into the right communities right away. Push Notis to vetted lancers who are a match for this. If you get no lancers you get refunded. No risk. High signal. Next: Choose lancer. Accept. Kick off. Escrow for safe payment with lancer. We take 5% from buyer. Finalised once delivered. Reputation score for everyone. One account per lancer. Instant payout for lancer. Subscriptions. Like working with them? Why not subscribe to their offer package or their SQUAD package (agency if they’re affiliated with any). Now lancers have 2 income streams.

**Problem:**

It’s hard to find the right ppl to work with you.

Freelancing is also boring. We turn it into a game

**MVP**

Tweet-sized landing page - collect emails

Matchmaking over airtable vector DB
Get communities onboard
Short explainer video (using that ai video tool)

**ANGLES**
Matching the passionate creators they don’t know about, to dream projects they give a shit about

fiverr is robbing value creators

Freelancing is the greatest game

**THESIS**
Ppl should be free to learn skills and monetize v quick online and escape the old economy and enter the digital one. If you’re good - you get clients.

The future of work is play.

The things we don’t like will be automated (tedious tasks). The things we do like will be specialised + AI boosted.

The future is not employees but contributors and contractors.

Community > audience. Contributor > random “good on paper” hire. Not chained to 1 income. Not chained to 1 employee. Proof of work > degree. Real skills > politics

Community is where too talent hangs out and levels up. XLancer is how you reach them.

This is a gate to the freedom economy. Work on whatever tf you want, whatever way you want it 

### **FEATURES**

**GUILDS** 
Setup by user or communities

Drive back % from all the missions into community
Safe. Escrow.

---

Anon friendly. NFT proof of work

Permissionless - open to anyone

Vetted - pros are vetted and doxxed

AI-powered matches in hours - not days

Gates to the freedom economy via skill leverage
Talk to AI. Construct a mission object together.
Mission sent to relevant discords as job board. New users interested sign up and put up their hands for it. Matches are found based on skills, offers + availability. Message is sent to these lancers and communities. 24 hours to generate matches at the beginning - but less over time as we get more users. Users accept/reject. Hirer Chooses 1 they like. Missions starts. Wherever the community the user is from gets a share of the bounty.

---

**Multiplayer raids**

have option for “I need a team”. And we put together a team. Like league of legends. Create history of how well you worked together and maybe get matched together in future if you like this work style vs pure solo.

---

**MONETIZATION**

Current strat

- AI match for $50-100
- 5% from buyers in escrow
- $10 Subscriptions from Ghosts (priority + vetted + anon friendly)

**lancer tokens**

if we take from lancers…

- more tokens you hold, the less fees we take
- can use tokens for stuff too in future

**WHO**

Online creators and builders. Those levelling up with online skills.

The AI Devs,

The sales copywriters

The sales closers

The ETH devs

No code prototypers

App devs 

**GHOSTS**

Join as a Ghost to get special perks

$20/mo

10 slots open every month

We vet + accept

Make connections to form squads where it makes sense 

internet has unseen heroes that your recruiter won’t find

find the ghost to grow your startup or project

designers, devs, marketers, editors, etc

ghosts are all around you. Reveal them and tap into internet’s finest talent

real work, not monkey business

**Principles**

Internet, crypto, now AI - it’s changed our world but we’re still running on the same OS. This changes now

Redefine Freelancing + online work

Hub for new digital economies

Making freelancing fun

Problems:

- Hard to find passionate, talented, pre-vetted talent who know their shit
- Hard to find good operators who know their shit
- Months of trying to find good talent
- Getting burned by shit freelancers
- Expensive agencies taking years

Execution:

1. Get discord communities onboard: our offer: bring gigs, jobs and bounties directly to your community. Also managed service: Tap into your community’s talent + build your creator and builder program out (create content to bring audience + build cool shit)
2. Build discord bot that enables messages to be sent to a specific channel (agree to have that channel in there)
3. Create a database of freelancers (our users) and startups
4. Offer landing page for startups, hackers and projects: (tap into top 1% of internet talent) - don’t want money on recruiters. Chances of finding them with current system, 0.01%. We built a better way. Find your dream dev, chief of memes, etc. Launch missions, get it done. 72 hours vs months
5. Posting mechanism developed
6. Launch our own discord 
7. Outreach to businesses to try it out 
8. Page for each community that shows all relevant missions available to them as a community member

Communities (skills)

They have job boards and companies can come to them, but this service would connect across all communities

- Prob get leads and have to turn em down. Give it off to their community
- Get kick back if your community member gets hired (incentivizes community to invest in their members + healthy competition to grow and provide more value without extra effort on the talent and leads side)
- Bring their members/students some bags
- Uncover the hidden talent of your community
- Increase value of their community
- Done for you free service for them
- Some examples: Nicolas Cole + ship 30 for 30 community + promptsdaily
- unlock a new source of revenue by matching your community with dream projects
- get leads don’t know what to do with? refer clients to XL + get affiliate deals - distribute to your members if they’re available

Communities with their own job boards

- we vet the community talent
- open doors beyond this community
- Qualify leads and create bags for community

Freelancers

Get new dream projects into your inbox every week. complete missions. get paid.

- Focus on developing their craft
- Gain real experience and money
- Don’t need another site to display their work. Use their current portfolio, bento, dribbble, etc.
- Don’t waste time on 9-5 or jobs you hate. Build and grow alongside others. Have no shame for your big ideas and projects
- We productize you (turn you into a Netflix subscription)

**Startups and founders**

find talent you need as easily as asking chatGPT

Save time - we craft the mission, research the best match, and make the connection - the same day

Save money - no recruiting fees, no insane fiverr %

- ditch job listing - hire from the global internet economy instead (we go after companies who list jobs in edge tech too)
- Solopreneurs and multipreneurs can stick to their freedoms + while leveraging internet talent here and there
- hire internet native savvy talent that have grown up in the trenches
- Based on your preferences (figma, good listener, etc)
- Where do you find cutting edge talent? They’re on the corners of the internet. Not college degrees. Ordinals. Smart contracts. GPT devs
- Proven work (NFT)
- Easily participate in the new creator economy (where businesses of all sizes hire the best global talent on demand to scale and create whenever they need it)
- to build on the edges of the unknown, and lead the market in the most profitable paths you need super specific niche talent. You won’t find that in universitites, LinkedIn, recruiters. You have to go deep. Underground. Where this talent is hidden. We do that for you
- tap into internet native, passionate creators to contribute to their brand without the bottlenecks of the traditional system
- talent within hours, not months
- outsource the right way (without middlemen that screw over the talented)
- Give equity (with web3) - have this option - makes people inclined to do better work when they share a stake in the success.
- Web3 projects fail from no talented builders
Startups fail from burning their high engineer costs. Anything fails without the right talent in place. xLancer gives them to you

Creators

Creators want to build companies - SAAS and communities is the future
They’re having trouble monetising

They have the community - which is key to either of products - but they don’t have the next step

That’s where lancer comes in

-

We match skilled talented creators to companies

We build out their SAAS and partner for growing these

-

- Manage incoming leads (filter + send their way or connect with a creator in their community)

**Product communities**

e.g. Framer, Midjourney, etc.

Community is the new user base
Learn
Dive deep
XLancer to get missions

Easily verify your experts and give them jobs

NFT proof of work to validate work

Stronger communitys
Stronger users
More growth

**Agencies**

- we make sure you have constant great epic talent you can always turn to - passionate, pre vetted, trained, nft work history, etc
- need the best talent to scale
- Too busy with running the agency and life that it’s hard to find the right people
- Need a steady supply in case of churn or issues

Imagine…

- front end dev easily partners up with ai engineers and software engineers to build an ai app they’re working on